What does it mean to be called crazy in a crazy world? Listen to Madness Radio, voices and visions from outside mental health.
Welcome to Madness Radio, this is your host Will Hall. And I'm really excited to be joined by my co-host Nikki Glasser.
I really appreciate your work as show co-producer and co-host. Do you want to introduce our guest today, Michael Montgomery?
He has a talk on YouTube called Tales of Treatment, Hope Without Borders, and I watched it recently. I just was so deeply moved by what he had to say.
Michael Montgomery is an existential psychoanalyst working in a clinic specializing in psychosis and complex trauma. He works in the tradition of R. D. Laing using a non-pathologizing approach.
Thank you so much, Nikki, for that introduction. It's very exciting to be here, absolute pleasure to spend some time with you and Will.
We were all really struck by, you're not an ordinary, standard mainstream professional. And I think that is really going to inspire our listeners to meet you and hear about how your work is different.
How did you get interested in being a psychotherapist, psychoanalyst, working in mental health? Did you start out more mainstream and then move to a different perspective?
It was a parallel journey, if you like. I loved my first career in business. I worked my way up with more or less no qualifications. I left school at 16. I had undiagnosed dyslexia.
I felt the need to find answers about the meaning of life. That really came about because I grew up in Northern Ireland during the armed conflict.
I was met with the existential realities of death and impermanence and sought the answers to that. I ended up going and living in a Buddhist retreat center for several years.